you
okay hello everyone welcome to wireless
sensor network this is our first session
uh i apologize apparently there was a
mistake in the calendar invitation
uh just put pretty thirty just in case
you have some
problems to log into zoom but our class
starts every week from four to six based
on your timetable
but i'm going to go and change that
invitation
anyway every week i will be available
half an hour earlier before the class if
you have any question
this is uh we will have consultations
every week as well but if you like to
join earlier and have some
discussion with me i'm available from 3
30 every week but
our main session will start from four to
six
okay um i just need to admit more as
soon as
the class uh first thing please make
sure you log in with your
student uh details too soon so you
uh will not be waiting in the uh
waiting room uh so you can directly join
the class if you log in with your
uts details
so uh but i'm gonna record all sessions
from next week
but this week i'm not recording if you
have any questions feel free to admit
yourself and ask me your question
or you can type your question just chat
box
as you can see here if you send
something in chat box everyone will see
it if it's private
just send it privately to me
but anyway feel free to unmute yourself
and
ask your questions if any uh all people
saw my slides just as an introduction to
wireless sensor network
we will go through them in a couple of
minutes i'm waiting for more students to
sign up but meanwhile if there is
something you want to say
feel free to yes okay
thanks lady okay how was your break did
you have any or did you have a
summer session as well
great great i don't know how many of you
are in australia
or how many of you are overseas but um
yes which is a very quick question in
the chat box box uh
mentioned if you are in australia or in
syria this is basically we want to make
sure we have enough
staff to take care of you in the
face-to-face class as well as an online
class
i would like to know how many of our
students will join
face-to-face class uh just notice around
70 students already enrolled
in face-to-face labs i would like to
encourage you if you are in sydney
and if you don't have any problem please
join our face-to-face
labs because this is a great opportunity
to improve your hands-on skills
but it's not mandatory it's just a
suggestion
all uh lectures will be online and and
will be recorded
i know some of you are joining us from
overseas so this time would not be
really suitable some of you are in
australia and you may
work part-time so again on recording
every session
from next week just to make sure you all
have access to
uh materials and also we have lecture
notes and other
lab materials everything will be
uploaded on canvas but apart from this
we will record the lectures and
we will have two different labs um
same material but we have two different
modes online and face to face
starting from next week same material
will be covered in both labs but
uh i'm gonna explain later but uh if
because the
subject is mainly uh about working with
hardware like
raspberry pi sensor tags and
launchpad is better to join a
hardware lab not not necessarily every
beach but if you can make it that would
be great otherwise
you can join online labs and um
same material will be delivered in both
labs
okay i'm just checking
the chat box so
just counting how many of you are in
australia and how many
overseas
yes of course you can
go through your student admin and select
uh
four labs select a tuesday one two three
one two three is for face to face and
four to six is for online and all
lectures are online so you don't need to
do anything for monday class
and the later on i will explain more we
will
create teams microsoft teams
so then and microsoft is i will try to
uh send all announcements through
microsoft teams as well
uh because i think there was an issue
with canvas last week i don't know if
all of you
uh receive my announcement but we will
have microsoft teams also a channel for
our wireless sensor network
uh this is a very good question
my job yep um i will explain every
details and probably next week when
within your first lap your tutor will
also explain
more there would be two options you can
purchase hardware in your from your home
country
or if this is not possible we can
arrange another type of assessments for
you
my recommendation is to uh do what other
students are doing use the
hardware and uh i'm gonna explain
details shortly
we i have some slides for this
yes yes all you need harder
so uh let me share my screen and
as we as we go if you have any question
feel free to stop me
as i said you can unmute yourself and
talk to me if you like
or if you like you can turn on your
video this session is not recording it's
mainly to
uh meet each other today and i gonna
briefly explain the subject so
it's the opportunity to
see each other if you like
you're welcome okay
let me share my screen
some give me a few seconds or
admitting more students to the class
[Music]
could you see my screen
yes we can see it okay by the way i'll
explain everything for hardware don't
worry
okay great
okay welcome to also new students or not
just
around tennis students just joining
welcome to wireless central network this
is our first
session and if you can see my screen
i'm going to put in a presentation of
you
okay my name is megan shaiti i'm the
coordinator of
wireless sensor network and also a
lecture for this subject
so if you see wsn it's an
acronym for wireless sensor networks
today i'm going to give you a brief
introduction of these subjects the
objective of wirelessness or network a
very brief overview
and the summary of our upcoming lectures
and also very brief introduction to
in terms of things here is my details
you will find everything on
canvas and my email address and also my
office
building 11 and level 8. if you like to
catch up with me please drop me an email
to make an
appointment you can catch up on campus
or on zoom
and we will have regular uh
consultations also every week but if
you'd like to have a
101 meeting feel free to drop me an
email
and also angus is your lab demonstrator
uh i will upload his portal later on
canvas
he is really hands-on his background is
in electronics and electrical
engineering
uh and i would encourage you to
attend all the labs and lectures because
learning these subjects would be much
more easier if you attend regularly
next week we will have our next uh first
laps
uh on tuesday so this week we don't have
any lap
tomorrow this is mainly because i wanted
to give you more time to create your
teams and
your your groups for uh wider sensor
network
uh briefly about myself apart from my
uh academic role as a senior lecturer in
the school of electrical and data
engineering i'm the deputy director of
olfa communication technologies
laboratory uh we established this lab in
the
in building 11. it will be fully
operational in a couple of weeks
and i think that would be a great
opportunity for some of you
if you would like to do your master's
graduate project or
phd later i'm
also a leader for sensing innovation
constellation at food agency crc
as we go in this semester i will explain
more about my role because that would be
also interesting for some of you
to do some um hands-on project
especially i design our
various sensor network projects in a way
to be useful for
industrial projects so there will be
other opportunities for you to extend
your project
and join
other activities as well i'm also a
senior lecturer with a
joint appointment at ocado university in
japan
engaging with research and teaching
activities with hong kong
university i just wanted to share some
photos from our
previous years of in coordinating and
teaching these subjects from
uh 2017 this is we usually take group
photo in the
uh final session and i'm uh
planning to take this group photo with
you as well in the final session here is
2017 and 2018
these are not all the students by the
way because some students
completed their presentation and they
left our class
2018 and 2019
and you can guess 20 20
copies and we had the zoom lectures
and yep
this week uh this this year uh
it's a big difference compared to last
year because we are
still uh due to coffees we have uh
online
uh uh teaching but uh
you have a like a mix mod this year
last year we didn't have any on-campus
activities but this year
uh we can offer you on-campus uh labs
so i don't know if you found like a
common point in all these
photos have you noticed anything which
is
common in all these photos
[Music]
yeah probably uh
the most visible thing you can see
everyone is happy and this
this water is yeah of course
uh this water is taken as i said in the
last session
so as you see in all orders the students
are happy
this means you don't need to be worried
or receive some emails from you
over the past couple of days and i'm
going to explain briefly but this
subject is not
designed to fail you it's designed to
help you to improve your
skills so as you see students very happy
in the final
session and i believe you will be in a
similar situation in couple of months
not not necessarily diego but
if if you plan from now
and if you just
follow our instruction you can
definitely get a very good mark in this
subject
so uh you know you
you're going to have labs in building
11. i don't know if you are in
year one or year two if you found a
chance to
uh have some classes in this building
but this is a this is our building 11 5
star green building
there is a wanted to in briefly
introduce the building because this is
basically related to our
subject over 3000 sensors are embedded
in this building
this is a smart building and in one of
our sessions i'm going to introduce you
how you can use the data collected from
these sensors in our building
and this uh metallic mesh you see
uh surrounded our building is basically
a binary code for
uts faculty of engineering and nit
just like some side information uh for
you okay
sorry for interruption at the same time
trying to read your comments or
questions in chat box
okay that was actually uh uh i want to
stress you at the in this session that
how many of you uh have background for
these subjects or probably by the end of
this session i can ask you because
uh probably you don't know exactly what
we're going to cover in this subject
but think about it by the end of this
session i'm going to ask you how many of
you do have any background
the main reason it always suggests to
because for your projects you're going
to
um work in a team i will suggest to me
mix some nice
skills in your team if you are for
example if you are very good in coding
and the other students is good in a
harder obviously to have a combination
of different
skills in your team uh this way you can
help each other
and progress quicker in this subject
okay uh one one thing i'll mention this
this subject is mainly designed to
enhance your
hands-on excuse which is required by uh
industry in australia
this is one of by the way these numbers
are from last year you can find updated
values online
but as you can see here uts is number
six
in australia in terms of employability
and
uh this is one of the main focus of the
our wireless sensor network soldiers or
i want you to think about from this
angle not only
uh trying to pass some
subjects and get some credits think
about it from this angle
you want to improve your skills you want
to apply for industrial positions or psg
position in a year or two so try to make
the most of this subject and
don't worry too much about your grade or
final results
yes there is only one slot for on-campus
labs
and so far i think 17 students are
enrolled so there are
some free spots available
but i understand you this time would not
be
suitable for everyone this is why you
have
online labs as well
so uh as i mentioned i'm the deputy
director of orfan communication
technologies lab
i just wanted to briefly explain what we
have in the lab so this would be
interesting for some of you we
some of my former students from these
subjects uh
join us as a phd students or masters uh
uh graduate project student
so that would be interesting also
especially if you like to
work on hardware-based projects my
background is in
electric electronics electrical
engineering and
other fan communication technologies on
mainly focus on
hardware development and the lab is
mainly about
developing circuits sensors and iot
prototypes
we have the emc chamber pcb prototyping
machines the
pecan police machine laser printers
and this would give you some ideas
especially if you haven't done your
master's graduate project
and also an array of measurement
equipments like your vector signal
uh generator uh and network analyzers
you can find all these details online
rfct
webpage
so these are some of our focus uh
research area
if you are interested uh feel free to
ask me questions after the class or
we can catch up on campus and i can show
you the lab
in couple of weeks uh so
uh oh by the way wireless sensor network
is the core subjects for
this program uh telecommunication
program
uh so i believe you
had some similar subjects probably if
you've done your bachelor especially in
uh if you've done your bachelor in uh at
uts you had an
introduction to this subject uh
introduction to iot
but if you don't have any background at
all which was the case for many of
my students in the past don't worry you
can start from
today and uh using this mastery
and also attending uh all lectures and
labs regularly will
help you to understand the subject
so uh violence central network games to
as i mentioned produce graduates ready
to explore new opportunities in the
future work environment uh
you are i think most of your
postgraduate students master the
students uh
some of you i don't think uh i couldn't
find from
your details but some of you would be
bachelor students but the majority of
students in this class are postgraduate
and i believe you you have some plans
for your
future career so this subject
will probably help you to improve your
some of your skills and also you can
mention the projects we're going to do
this
in subjects you can mention in your cv
because we design it in a way to be
suitable for
industry and this basically based on the
current
challenges and current requirements for
industry so if you achieve
good results in your project also just
to add it to your cv
and say design and implemented this
between wireless sensor network subject
yes yeah we need to create groups
yeah we will discuss uh probably in
10 minutes the object of
objective of this subject is to
introduce the fundamental
and also advanced concepts of internet
of things networking routing and
security
the major focus between our lecture
would be on
routing and security and in labs angus
will explain later
you will work with hardware and software
to develop a
wireless sensor network and you're going
to learn about the design aspects of
wireless sensor network
and also another objective is
to demonstrate hands-on skills and
practical knowledge in various sensor
networks to design an implementation of
basic sensor networks i'm saying basic
but some
students depends on your capability your
background you can go beyond the scope
you can develop something more advanced
and everything will be captured in your
assessment if you'd
be defined a basic scenario but this
shouldn't limit you to
go behind this and also troubleshooting
is another objective of wirelessness or
network troubleshooting a
sensor network to basically to do real
environmental experiments
uh in your lab projects you're going to
work on a smartphone project precision
agriculture
and i would encourage you to do some
real environmental experiments in the
field if you like
like it could be as easy probably you
notice from one of the photos
i showed you it could be as easy as
using sensors to
measure uh moisture content in a pot
uh uh for basically for a smart
agriculture
so uh we will introduce real examples
uh this is basically uh this uh project
for wireless natural networks in
industry driven and uh
this would help you to work on real
examples in
this subject materials
everything can be found on the canvas
let me know if you if there is any
problem you don't
find this you can't find this materials
online we have lecture notes
uh i will upload lecture notes every
week uh
so you don't have any lecture notes that
this is stage on canvas you will see
lecture notes from next week but
recommended book and
some other materials are already
uploaded on canvas
okay probably this slide will uh
answer some of your questions uh
basically you have three
assessment tasks in this subject uh
task one and task two are related to
your lab work and both together with
contribute to
60 percent of your total assessment
task 1 is about design implementation
and documentation
documentation means providing a report
and task 2. is
project presentation and demonstration
same thing you will you will have one
project
throughout the semester in phase one you
will focus on design and implementation
and writing your report and in phase two
you focus on presentation and
demonstration
same project it has two phases
and it's a group group
i would rather call it a team it's a
teamwork and
but you will be assessed also
individually
all details are uh included in the
subject outline in terms of percentage
uh 20 percent for example group or 10
percent individual
refers to outline for more details but
generally speaking
this is a teamwork and
i'm not going to use a spark mechanism
in our subject i don't know if you heard
about it or not i trust you
and we'll ask you in your report to
mention what's your individual
contribution
for example you can mention i was in
charge of coding
this teammate was in charge of writing
reports and doing
for example measurements and from the
beginning
think about how you're gonna share the
lot uh it's the fun projects
and you will enjoy it uh if you do it
together
and um you can create a team of of two
forest students
in some cases of the accepting of uh
five students that's socially fine if
you can share the lord
evenly among your team members
and the main idea
apart from another idea objective apart
from
uh working on this hands-on project is
to develop your communication and
personal skills as well through this
subject because as i mentioned you're
going to
join for example industry you're going
to work in an environment you need to
work with other people
it's good to think about
how you can improve your teamwork uh
skills and interpersonal skills in this
subject as well
you can create your small channel on
microsoft teams
after i create our main uh wireless
answer network channel you can
create your mini channel uh and then
for only for your team members you can
invite me
and your tutor if you like and you can
have the
weekly meetings and discussions uh
together
and uh if if you plan it from
uh next week uh you will see the
project is not uh difficult and it's not
really time consuming but if you leave
it to the
last minute of course this is not
possible to wrap up these projects in
couple of
weeks uh i will do my best to
upload your assignment uh as soon as
possible
we usually uploaded in week four but
this semester i decided to upload it
earlier this is
mainly to give you more time to think
about it and plan ahead with your team
members
i know some of you are overseas you may
not have a chance to catch up together
and
know each other it would be probably
difficult to
create your team i can help you you can
begin
the next couple of weeks on microsoft
teams i can ask you for example
if you found your team members or if you
create your team or not
and um i'll help you to
join other teams and i think the best
thing is good to advertise yourself on
the microsoft and say for example
uh i'm good at this these are my skills
i'm looking for some team members so
this way you can have a mixture of
different
skills in in your team
apart from labs 40 percent of your
[Music]
mark will be dedicated to uh lectures
the lectures i'm going to deliver every
week
um gonna design three online quizzes
and this online quizzes will be held
during lecture time
and the details are in
and your subject outline
i think week 4 6 and 8
double check but beating the class time
between the lecture
time we have three online quizzes and
these online quizzes are
mainly based on lecture notes and based
on the material i'm going to deliver in
the class
even for example if i if you have quiz
today after completion of this lecture
you you should be able to answer
questions because
i did um design questions based on the
materials
i'm going to deliver in the class
then think how many people can uh for
group you four students but in some
cases of will accept
five students but make sure you
can everyone contribute to the
project yes three is fine as well
definitely
and if you really don't want to work
with
in a team you can work individually but
please try to find some team members and
as i said one of the intention of this
subject is to help you to improve your
communication
skills and it's much more easier if you
work in a team in terms of
preparing your reports and also
having hardware yeah of course
uh so 40 60 44 lectures 64
labs and this 40 percent is the only
for individual assessment for quizzes
and
60 percent is for group and individual
yes
you will submit one report for
assignment
uh assessment task one and
you will submit one presentation for
assessment task two
but everyone should present for probably
five minutes
in the final session
any questions so far
no i wish i could offer uh
bonus more spots uh no but definitely
when i'm
marking your assignment i will consider
uh your work for example if you have a
team of five
uh then expectations i think should be
different
when compared to a team of uh tourist
students
but uh to be fair i i have a uh
it's like a teaching philosophy for
myself i'm not gonna compare group
a with group two i'm gonna compare you
with yourself
in your assignment one you're gonna
submit a report and in your assignment
two
assessment high school i'm gonna see how
you progress and
this is really important for me because
some of you don't have any background
some of you already work in this domain
so i think it's not really fair to
compare students together
and compare teams together there is some
specific criteria you need to meet to
get
good mark or pass this subject but i'm
going to compare you with yourself as
well
you i'm going to see how you you
progress throughout the semester
okay that was a very good question uh
by the way let me know if you're
pronouncing your name incorrectly
uh had a student in 2017 his background
was in art
and he achieved 93 in my subject
and now he's working industry he
basically started from scratch and that
semester and apart from this service you
also had
uh three other subjects so if you don't
my answer to your question if you don't
have any background but if you
actively attend all labs and lectures
and you work in a team
yes you can achieve a very good mark in
this subject
and there are plenty of resources online
materials online
don't limit yourself to the materials we
are going to provide this subject
go beyond this if you want to do
something uh
if you want to do like a very high
quality project you can search
for to find other materials and
everything will be captured in your
assignment uh if i see you doing
something
behind the subjects for examples of
implementation for example or real
environmental measurements i will
definitely
[Music]
consider this one in your total mark
okay
so to pass the subject you should
achieve an overall mark of 50 or more
in general uh but
this is just for your information i
don't think this should be your plan
your your plan should be achieving hdd
or
distinction in this subject
and the other major uh some of the major
channels are probably
published online as a part of closing
the feedback
loop based on last year's students
comments but i'm just telling you
something
uh here on this slide and last year we
had four
assessments this year i reduced them to
three this is mainly
and this is mainly the other assistant
we had last year was another
phase for your projects and that
another report submission was a
requirement of that phase i decided to
remove that
assignment mainly because i think it's
better you focus on the quality of your
projects rather than writing a
couple of reports one report is enough
this semester
so i remove another task this is may
probably one of the major changes
compared to
last year and another
uh changes is we don't have any final
exam
this year so uh we're going to have
three online quizzes throughout the
semester so you don't have any
exam during the exam period
any questions
okay a general overview of what we're
going to cover
within the next uh 11 weeks
uh introduction and background to
wireless sensor network and internet of
things
and next week i'm gonna cover this
uh lecture and then we're going to focus
on routing and wireless sensor network
which is a very
important topic in this domain
if you want to work as an engineer or as
a researcher this is a good topic to
focus
designing new type of routing or
understand what are the current wrapping
mechanism involves samsung networks and
iot so three sessions will be dedicated
to this but
we also have a quiz i think in
week four so part of our class time will
be dedicated to
uh quizzes and then
i'm gonna explain uh some real
applications of embedded
sensors in our building 11
at uts and then
two sessions will be dedicated to
security and wireless sensor network
which is another hot topic in this
domain
and this is obviously these are just
mainly the fundamental uh knowledge you
can gain in this summit there are plenty
of uh
research papers if you like to delve
deep into these topics or
i can share with you some papers as well
uh if you like to
enhance your knowledge and the other
thing
which is really important this obvious
as i mentioned this subject is
the assignment specifically the project
is industry driven
every year indus i invite a lecturer a
guest lecturer from industry
and that's a great opportunity for you
to hear
real applications of wireless central
network and oil t
in in industry industrial applications
uh apart from uh this is not it's not
like a lecture it's like a
uh discussion session i will invite
someone from my
uh uh my industry partners and who is
working in domain and who's got uh
technical knowledge so you can also ask
questions
and another thing i think and i find it
very useful for some of my former
students
this is a great opportunity for you to
get more exposure if you like to apply
for internships
specifically in that company or if you
like to do like
graduate project i can introduce you
also
to to the company to that industry
partner
and i'm also thinking of
inviting a couple of my colleagues one
of them is industry associate professor
he can share his knowledge and
experience from his work in
intel for 13 14 years
okay question here
yeah we can we can discuss about this
later there as we go you will find out
more opportunities for your master's
graduate project we can down the line we
can discuss how
if you like for example to extend your
wireless sensor network projects for
your master's graduate project that's
one option the other thing
if your background is in rf
communications or electronics
you can develop hardware in our lab so
we can discuss about master's graduate
project
later and private meetings uh
think about this uh from next week or
later when we
uh introduce the projects think about it
if you like
to extend it as a master's graduate
project
because this soft the project has the
potential to be extended to
uh like uh six months for a one-year
project and you can also produce
publication out of this project if you
extend it to
more advanced levels okay uh
final uh teaching sessions will be
dedicated to resource management
in wireless sensor network and energy
efficiency you know
power is uh one of the main issue in
violence and so network we beat in a
couple of sessions
within two sessions we're gonna discuss
about how you can
manage uh energy and resources in your
wireless sensor network imagine you have
over
thousands of sensors and you want to
extend their lifetime how we can do this
this is uh from hardware perspective
mainly
and also powering quality devices and
energy harvesting and wireless power
transfer
virus sensor network we'll be discussing
uh
final teaching session and this is
basically the last two
sessions are mainly based on my research
experience during my phd and also during
my academic
work on supervising a number of
like two phd students in antenna design
for wireless
power transmission and two phd students
in circuit design for wireless power
transmission energy harvesting
so i can share some of our research with
you if you are
interested to know more about
sustainable oil devices and
final session will be your turn you want
to
present your achievements your resource
from assessment has run
in this session
if you for example if you have a demo
you can
bring it to our zoom meeting you can
present it or if you
for example if you're doing some real
environmental measurement in form or
just having a small pot would be enough
you can
record a short video and bring it to the
class
as we go through our semester i'll
explain more about your presentation
any questions super
today is mainly like an introduction
it's not a
complete teaching session i'm going to
briefly introduce iot but
our main focus for today is to introduce
the subjects and also
assessments okay questions here
that's good that's what you started
creating your
groups from now um
i will do my best so i've already
contacted oic to create a microsoft
channel
i think that would uh be better for you
to interact with each other
to form your team
uh by the way we in this session in uh
the session we're going to focus on real
applications of embedded sensors
we we may have another one hour free if
you have any solution you want me to
discuss on a specific topic
feel free to let me know by next week so
i can include
more discussions in this week because
we're not going to dedicate two hours
for this topic
so if you have any topics you would like
to be included in this subject
uh feel free to propose
okay today uh i'm gonna give you a
very brief overview of the uh iot device
and also we discuss about subject
outline
and next week introduction and
background to wireless sensor network
and iot sensors actuators and
this kind of thing i will upload our uh
materials online
and then first we will have our lab one
so lecture two lab one and
introduction to the sensor network lab
work
and if i see the measures of the
students don't have any background in
programming
i will ask your lab demonstrator to give
you an introduction of
programming languages you can use in
this subject
and still you have time within the next
couple of weeks
to form your team to create your team
uh lecture three uh
first station of routing we will focus
on routing metrics and flat-based
routing and also routing protocols based
on operation type
and we'll have uh laptop on tuesday by
the way
um please either attend online
uh lab or uh face-to-face labs
if you attend both slabs then because we
don't have enough stuff to take care of
you
please make sure you you select one
session and then
attend that session every week uh the
other solution
if you're going to work in a team of
let's say four students
uh obviously just to have to assign
someone as a
team leader and mainly to have
more communications if you have a
question your team leader can raise it
on behalf of everyone
and that team leader is going to submit
the report
every everyone is going to contribute
but it's good to have a
team leader to also challenge weekly
meetings with among
a bit with other team members the other
thing i wanted to suggest
if you if you are in sydney and you
can't uh join
our face-to-face labs what you would
like to uh
see what's happening in online in face
to face life if you work in a team
one one of your team members can join
the uh
face-to-face labs or say two and the
other students can join online labs in
this case you in
in this way you have experience of both
activities and there is no attendance
sheet
in lectures or labs it's totally up to
you if you like to attend or not
uh i would like to encourage you to
attend all lectures and labs is
basically is make it much more easier
for you to absorb
uh the uh concept and understand
the subject much more easier but it's
totally up to you
i'm not going to deduct any mark for you
or at any give you any more for
attending or not attending the class
you okay just to answer one of the
questions here you may need to use uh
python or java
for programming but angus will explain
uh more
uh next week just an overview of uh
programming languages okay
lecture four will be dedicated to
hierarchical based routing and route
discovery mechanism we will also have
quiz one in this session
so quiz one will be based on the
material which already delivers
here and here so quiz one will be based
on lecture three
and lecture four and uh
as far as i can remember we may have
probably two to three
multiple choice questions
any questions so far
okay lecture five will be discussed
about
uh location based routing and in this uh
same session i will give you feedback on
quiz one as we go i will give you
feedback for
all uh assessments so you can improve
yourself for
other assessments and then in
lecture six we're gonna focus on uh real
applications of sensors and also
an overview of routing in wireless
sensor network will be given
and the kuisu which is i think it's
gonna take probably
at least half an hour of our class time
all quizzes are online and
uh there are multiple choice
we have multiple choice questions and uh
probably short answers
i will need to i haven't uh finalized
the
design for quotes tranquilizer iii but
uh will
uh the majority of questions are
multiple choice questions
but i trust you're gonna do it
individually
you may have short answer questions
short answer just
a couple of words
okay your favorite week student vacation
enjoy your break and there is no
lecture or lab in this session
and then following the break i'll
will give you feedback on kuysu i
decided not to have any assessments uh
in this week especially because i really
want you to enjoy your
one week break and to recharge your
batteries for the second half of the
semester
and in week in
lecture seven we're going to focus on
security part one
classification of attacks and also
attacks on network layer
and you will continue on your lab work
and project development in the
lab lecture eight will be focused on the
second part of the
security we
introduce some problems here
security problems in lecture seven and
then lecture eight we're gonna focus on
proposed solution to secure the network
against
attacks how we can secure our network
and uh here in this week we will have
quiz 3 which is the final quiz and
it's gonna probably take 40 minutes of
our class time
uh please make sure you attend the
the sessions we're going to have attend
all sessions please but
if you can't make it please attend the
sessions we have quiz because
there is no other way to take quiz if
you miss the class without any
special consideration i will not be able
to repeat the quiz for you
and please make sure you attend the
class and i think uts designed this uh
allocated this time for your wireless
sensor network four to six because
some of you are joining from overseas
this would give you uh
considering time difference i think this
is a good timing and also
some of you work part-time so again uts
decided to propose this time for your
subject and i think the measure
of you are okay but if you have any
problem uh you can make
a decision especially for your quizzes
let me know in advance
and i need to find out another way but
you need to submit a special
consideration request
okay and then we will have guest
lecturer
uh and uh also
the guest lecturer will discuss or
lecturers probably all may invite
more than one uh industry partner
we're going to discuss about industrial
applications of iot and you will see
what's the use case of these subjects in
reality
and i'm going to give you feedback on
quiz 3
and lecture 10 resource management
and energy efficiency and wireless
central network
and also i'm going to give you a very
short lecture it's not related to
technical materials it's about your
professional life how you to manage your
professional life
this is mainly about my experience as an
engineer
as an academic i would like to share
with you and
help you with some of the questions you
may have for your future
career and in this
uh week week 11 in the lab session i
will give you a presentation guideline
and but throughout the semester we will
discuss more about this but
specifically in this session we can
dedicate 10-15 minutes to go through the
guideline together
and to help you prepare yourself for the
final week and
here we discuss about covering it voices
and energy harvesting and wireless power
transfer
and wireless sensor network and
especially our sustainable iot and
wireless sensor networks
and they will give you feedback on
assessment one
in this uh in week 11 labs
uh i think due date for assessment one
is uh
23rd of april please double check your
outline
but uh after a couple of weeks i'm gonna
give you feedback on assessment but i'll
do my best to do it
in this week mainly because i really
want uh to give you some feedback to
help you to improve your
uh assessment task too
okay this final week is your turn
for presentations and demonstration and
we will dedicate both lectures and lab
sessions for your presentation and
demonstration
okay probably one question you may have
is how to get hardware for the lab
we're going to explain the projects in
couple of weeks but
uh just for information you will need
raspberry pi's
launchpad sensor tags and some other
small
hardware and kits you probably noticed
from the subject outline that
you would be required to purchase this
hardware and that was the case for all
other students in the past what i'm
going to offer you this year
and to make it much more easier for you
we've got this our purchases harder for
our research projects
for rfct lab you can borrow it from me
for the duration of this semester
but you will need to bring it back in
the same condition
and this is gonna save you probably
300 to 400 the whole package i mean
you can borrow it from me if you like to
purchase it for yourself
i can't find a way through uts i don't
know if it's very straightforward to
purchase it from our lab but
i think it's not really straightforward
if you like to borrow it
uh i can arrange it for you if you like
to purchase it
and you cannot find it you you you
really want to purchase from uts i can
find a way
otherwise i can share some information
with you you can find from
certified suppliers in sydney but
there is no need to do this for this
subject you can
borrow it
okay for overseas a student
i'll share technical details of the
hardware we're going to use
these are very uh simple hardware you
can find it uh
in every electronic shop like raspberry
pi and
sensortext you can buy hardware from uh
this was the case for our last year
students in china
or india mainly we have the students
from these two countries they purchased
it from
uh suppliers in their home country and
uh
but if you let's discuss again
and next week if you find it very
difficult i will find another way to
design a new
assignment for you my solution is to do
this one
because uh first we have all materials
ready for this
hardware development part and it's very
enjoyable to do this
lab work using hardware the other thing
you will learn
a new knowledge by doing these projects
in hardware domain and that would be
very useful for your cv
and the last thing you're going to work
in a team not necessarily
all of you need to have this hardware
it's good all of you
work with hardware but you can share the
lot
one of you or a couple of you can do for
example coding or take care of the
software part and couple of you can take
care of the hardware
and if you are in the same city for
example in
your home country you can share the
hardware
so it's all uh about how you
create your team
yes i will i will upload all required
information for sensors online
yes of course there is a list i will
publish it online it was too late to do
it
too too early to do it this week i just
wanted to introduce the service briefly
and i'm going to upload everything on
canvas so you will
have a list but if you are in sydney you
can
borrow it from me
yes
so if there is one project for a team
and we're going to explain in a couple
of weeks it's mainly about a smartphone
but
different students may take different
approach you may use this
sensor to measure soil moisture content
or
soil humidity other students may use it
for example to measure
temperature of animal so it's totally up
to you
how you will you will see it in the
project description
you may have there's one project but
there will be different angles and
applications
and i would like to see different
students are working on different things
the query is one thing
which we're going to explain in every
lab session
but applications would be different and
i'd love to see your creativity in this
subject
think about the smartphone what are the
aspects you would like to measure
but wait for a couple of weeks because
everything is explaining project
description
and every team member yes you're working
on one project
but you will contribute to different
sections
or if you all want to contribute to uh
together
to the projects then you can learn from
each other and
you can help each other to improve the
quality of your project
hello can you hear me
hello any other questions feel free to
omit yourself if you like to ask
questions hello just give me a minute
i'll check
all questions in chat box
[Music]
hello
hello can you hear me yeah i just had a
few questions
um regarding the hardware part um
okay if you miss uh one question here
what if
you missed the lectures or any of the
labs due to
unavoidable circumstances do you have
any other option
uh as i mentioned i'll be record all
sessions and i will ask your lab
demonstrators also to record decisions
uh so you will have access to online
materials uh
lecture notes lab materials as well as
our recording
and the the other thing if you work in a
team
it's good other team members join the
session you're not going to make it
this way you can help each other and if
you miss anything your team members can
help you to
uh compensate that well actually i can't
hear you yeah i can hear you i think she
can't hear you
i don't know why you cannot mute
yourself
i'm talking can you hear me now
i think she can you're part of us i'm
not sure
what happened oh um
um yeah just ask whatever i will
like rephrase it whatever do you hear me
yeah i don't know if she can hear anyone
at all
no i don't think so she's hearing anyone
but sometimes she's answering the
questions
which were asked like a lot long before
yeah that happened one time last
semester yeah this connects
my wife's probably that's the issue
yeah how about now
yeah can you hear me now
[Music]
hello apparently she can't
um
feels frustrated huh yeah i will do it
later after the session video
probably something wrong with the
settings okay can you amuse yourself now
can you talk hello can you hear me
yeah we're all talking i think it's
from your end
no i can't
yeah i don't want to restart it in the
middle of our session
let me see if i meet you
in the museum
this
yeah of course i did
can you hear me now
there is always a challenge with zom
sessions
if anyone else can hear me can you just
answer if she said when she's gonna
release the hardware requirements for
the subject like raspberry pi arduino or
something like that
did she mention that
well i didn't recall that she mentioned
that maybe
she'll be releasing that in a couple of
weeks a couple of weeks
okay here probably
[Music]
is of the products yeah we are doing she
can provide us with the kinks
okay so she released the hardware stuff
in a couple of weeks
no i can't hear anything
this is so awkward um what about the
monitors
we have still another one over
[Music]
let me restore my computer
did anyone find out if they quit design
multiple choice
five minutes the first one is multiple
choice
and the rest of them the format hasn't
been decided for the others yet
please don't go and join again in a
couple of minutes
[Music]
why you said you're in self engineering
beautiful
hi everyone did she mention anything
about people doing the online labs do we
have to purchase hardware
actually depends upon if you want to you
can purchase them but
it's not really necessary so how does
like
i'm sure there's some virtual software
that replicates like a raspberry pi or
something right
actually there is a software on this
proteus you can use that one to
replicate some of these arduino things
and various sensors but not all of them
and for raspberry pi i try to find some
but there is none
you can actually use it can you um paste
a link to that what you just said in the
chat please
yeah of course just a second but you
know what uh it's quite tricky to use
that thing for
replicating that things yeah yeah
so i'm going to put the link for you
just again
yeah thanks mike nice i just want to
know if she's going to
deduct marks for not using actual
hardware that's all no
because yeah
just a second
it sounded like there might be bonus
marks for using real-life
sensor data but no yeah but in the start
she
just mentioned the thing that she's not
gonna compare one group to another
so i don't think so that would be
that right so just go to this link and
try to search for proteus like the
latest version is produce eight
trackers free library no it's not free
but you can obviously find the crack
version and things
yeah so
then you can find one of the
microcontrollers over there
it got its own library known as arduino
and then you can
find multiple sensors just attached to
them
yeah in her initial announcement on
canvas she mentioned raspberry pi and
sensors i don't think she mentioned
arduino so does that mean arduino is not
like in the list you can use any of that
thing because all these are
microcontrollers and
just using to grab the data from the
sensors in this course we're not going
to learn about microcontrollers
just into sensors and things so whatever
microprocessor we are using to deal with
those sensors would be fine
i think so
okay can you hear me yes i can hear you
okay
all of us um yeah just wanted to confirm
the hardware list you said you were
releasing that in two weeks
is that correct or probably not this
week but the
project description will be released in
a couple of weeks
uh but yeah hardware lists will be
released earlier it's just
because you may need some time to order
them
i can also provide a list of uh
suppliers
as far as i know they are in australia
but these are very basic hardware you
can find it anywhere or even second hand
if you like
so would arduino be okay as one of the
hardwares
yeah this is another changes i've made
since
last year just to make myself more
the subjects more compatible with these
teaching challenges
you are free to use the arduino as well
or raspberry pi whatever you feel more
comfortable know that perhaps uh that's
much more weather we can talk together i
don't know
you you've been i think talking together
because i could see for a couple of
years yo
sorry about that uh yes
you can use that one the my main focus
is the practice practicality of your
project
and because your postgraduate students
are really like to see
more creativity and and new things from
each
team uh so
[Music]
you if you but discuss with me in
advance
just to make sure what you're going to
do is align with our subject
but you are free to ask to use a
different type of partner and then when
you see the project description you may
come up with different ideas because uh
in the description i mentioned for
example you can
focus on this or this the type of uh
application for a smartphone you may
come up with different things and uh
and that's totally fine um
yeah go ahead facebook
you when we do that okay i'm gonna
explain next week in the lab
and both uh face to face and online lab
we arrange your time at uts you come
over to ucs and borrow it from you
okay how many um raspberry pies do you
have
like now you can borrow you know
raspberry pi you know
but uh my priorities each team
borrow one and if you need more then
because these are basically for our
research projects our purchase for the
for our rfct lab so at this stage let's
say each team
has one uh hardware kit raspberry pi
launchpad
sensor tag and then if you need more for
example you need uh two packages for
your team then that would be uh second
phase
let's let's wait all until all teams
that have
one hardware then we can probably like
the
census tag are you gonna use some
something
yeah i think what you were saying is how
are we gonna get the senses
like you mentioned that census tag or
they're just limited to rfid or things
like that
or whatever you can be i'll send you
details after the class
uh what i have as uts sensor tags
launchpad and raspberry points are
compatible with each other
so you can you can find other uh models
also
to switch your project and this is
different to sensors you may need to
have a like simple soil moisture sensor
depends on what you want to sense
but give me a couple of days i will
upload everything and
with the description and you can also we
can also discuss in the lab
next week um i just have one more
question like
the sensors we are going to use in this
course are going to be the analog one or
the digital ones
i don't like sensors
but if you like to use digital sensors
to
capture more information this is also a
point
and what was i mentioned in the
beginning of this session this
this project would be suitable for your
master's graduate projects and
if you do it and this is this this is
really
really not to encourage you to think
about it from
this perspective just don't do it only
for wider sensor network
try to enhance your uh assignment uh
your output in this assignment because
then there would be multiple
opportunities to advance
uh and uh
we we discussed more next week because
basically
uh this discussion are related to our
lab but in the first session we want to
discuss more
and uh also in coming weeks uh
but i had some students who uh
joined our team as a phd students and
they basically extended these projects
uh
and then they publish a paper uh
there are many opportunities in this
tournament depends on how much time and
energy you would like to ingress
and it's not as i keep saying it's not
only about
for these this topics it's about you can
add it to your cv for example you can
say
uh created very small wireless sensor
network for uh
smart agriculture and this is very
attractive
that's totally fine you can uh
no if you've done it that's that's fine
uh so it's only for these subjects or if
you can't
find it relevant to other topics or for
your future career
or phd if you like to do them so
for the um assignment when you do end up
releasing
the details is this something very
strict so like is there a scenario and
we have to
make a wireless sensor network for that
scenario or is it like an open-ended
assignment where you can choose a
scenario yourself and we pitch it to you
and then you agree if we can do it which
one is that which
i would love to do it in a second that
you mentioned uh
because as i said you are postgraduate
students and if you can
pick something and you have some
creativity why not
we have a show we have that layout for
the assignment
but in the past a couple of years i also
have some
students who pick something uh
different based on their own experience
and that was totally fine and
we what i'm going to do this year
probably within the next couple of weeks
apart from this layout assignment
description you will see on
canvas i'm going to give you two three
more topics
uh based on our industry projects you
may
be interested to get involved with those
for example one of them is a
this is for indoor farming
because the project description is
mainly for outdoor farming you may be
interested in indoor farming and i think
nowadays it's very interesting
you may come up with some ideas to make
a greenhouse more
efficient and smarter and
there are there are multiple topics we
want to discuss with you but
it's too early probably within the next
couple of weeks i can give you
two two more topics apart from the main
project
and everything is under the same
umbrella small farming quite with
different
angles
uh i think uh good question uh
uh in terms of having uh two graduate
projects depends on your program it's
better to discuss with your
program pollinator not disc
this course coordinator is me your
program coordination i know i had some
students in the past they apart from the
master's graduate project they had
directed study i don't know if you heard
about issue or not
directed study subject is basically a
research project
you uh you can instead of having some
elective subjects which would not be
really beneficial for your future career
you can take one targeted study subject
and you can either do it it's like a six
credit points
you can uh do a projects under
supervision of
academic on a agreed topic it can be
just by the samsung network
extended version or you can combine that
directed
subject with your master's graduate
project and
dedicate that one year to sixth grade at
once together to develop
more results because i believe if you
really want to do something at a high
quality
it is six credit points one semester
uh master's graduate projects you will
not be able to do this is
if you can do the take this direct study
subject directed and study subject
that would be fantastic you can spare
another
semester six six credits to
combine both together and dedicate
more time to that project
um in regards to because you're talking
a lot about postgraduate stuff
um i'm actually an undergraduate student
okay i chose this subject as an elective
um so i'm just wondering like because i
don't have
like like a huge amount of knowledge in
this area
would it be okay if we stick with the
the shell
assignment that you gave us like the
default one and just if we demonstrate
our understanding from what we initially
did in the
first part of the assignment and towards
the second part would that
grant hd or would you like us to explore
things out of our you know reach or
something like
what's your expectation for undergrad
students without prior knowledge
yeah of course that's good then i would
like to know if you have more
undergraduate students here or not
that's great and yes of course you can
get history
be doing the subjects with the same
layout we're gonna put on canvas
the only reason i said i'm gonna
introduce more options this is just
to keep your options open and as i
mentioned i'm not gonna compare
different teams together i'm gonna
compare you with yourself uh
and i want to see your progress
throughout this semester you may start
from here i would like to see you are
here
but you may start from here if you have
background i would like to see you are
here
so you're you're from make sense yeah
so sorry if i miss any questions because
i couldn't hear you
feel free to admit yourself and ask now
and otherwise you can
go through our slides again
[Music]
okay you're studying double master of
engineering degrees at uts
but only have one yes
you had i think you usually do masters
uh
preparation and then preparation project
and then graduate project usually for my
students which i'm going
which i'm supervising i ask them to
combine their preparation and the actual
project together
so we have a span of one year together
so we can plan for something and
we can develop some tangible results
together preparation plus
project together if not if you have the
opportunity to get
that dark to study that will do the same
thing basically
and the other thing you can
yeah then the teams will be assigned
uh this is the first session and
and i'm just trying to understand your
background and also
i'm trying to explain the project as a
very high level
so you know what you're going to expect
and within the next couple of weeks
probably
you know exactly what you're going to do
for the labs
but first step is if you know
if you have some friends here or if you
know each other you
have some classmates here you have other
servers together
is good you form the team together
because you know each other if not after
i
developed that microsoft teams channel
you can advertise yourself as i
mentioned you can say
i'm good at coding and let's wait for
next week because
we explain what uh type of languages are
required or what
complex skills are required so you can
advertise your
your uh servicing on buddha this and
this
um looking for someone with these skills
it's better to
fill in the gaps between these teams
it's better having a mixture of
different
skills rather than having let's say for
students who don't have any background
or for students who's got
great background it's better to mix and
match uh so you can help each other
and uh if you are in sydney also just to
have uh meetings with your team members
let's say every week for example before
or after the lab in campus
so you can also enjoy doing the project
together
it's better than just uh just do it in
the
final weeks to submit your report and if
you are
not in sydney or if if you are in sydney
or you
decide to work remotely have these
online meetings uh
on zoom or microsoft teams
um with the online labs
will you and the two to be present in
those
depends on the number of students but at
this stage only your lab demonstrator or
your teacher will present but i will
uh attend all sessions and uh
be gonna run it together just to make
sure you have
enough support but this depends on how
many students we're gonna get on campus
or
on online sessions
which program which programming language
we are supposed to cover in this course
um mainly students use python in the
past you can use
java as well but
we will give you a very high level uh uh
introduction to programming languages uh
within the next couple of weeks in the
lab
but uh uh i mentioned it earlier i had
many
students with zero background in these
subjects and they started from scratch
because you
don't need to do complicated programming
in this subject
you just need to make things uh the
hardware you just need to run the
hardware
it's not very complicated if you start
from scratch but if you
join labs regularly during your
questions
you will be really on a safe side for
this subject
okay no please give me
your seconds i have more
slice yeah i'll show you
how many subjects do you have this
semester for
[Music]
and one of the reason i decided to
remove final exam because i understand
many of you have
another two three subjects or really
want to reduce
pressure on you during exam period
so by the end of semester you know
what's your
mark and you don't need to be worried
for
a final exam in the example
so let me share my screen again
could you see my screen introduction to
iot
yeah so
very briefly uh probably all of you know
and heard about iot if you go through
wikipedia
search this term the internet of things
is a system of interrelated
objects computing devices animals or
people
that are provided with unicorn
identifier and
they have the ability to transfer data
over a network without recording human
to human or human to computer
interaction
this is the definition of iot nowadays
we have ioe also
in terms of everything it's a
massive uh
concept obviously and if you as as we go
you can
and probably by doing other services you
will find out your interests if you like
to focus on hardware general speaking or
software
software there is something for everyone
in this domain if you like to develop
new type of sensors iot devices
antennas this is part of basically this
is my
main focus in my research so you can
develop new iot devices and sensors if
you are
more interested in coding there are also
plenty of opportunities in terms of
browsing security we're going to discuss
in this subject
so it's a it's a trend if you and this
subject would give you an introduction
to what's happening in real applications
in
industrial applications and you may find
uh find out later for example if you
want to stay in this domain or not but
there are many opportunities to explore
and okay another uh
description for based on dictionary.com
for
iot the internet connection via the
internet of computing devices embedded
in
everyday objects enabling them to send
and receive data
very simple uh definitions for
iot and main components of an
iot system as an engineer you may focus
on the system
development or you may focus only on one
specific component you may for example
only focus on
designing new sensors or devices or
developing new type of algorithms
or a hardware for to address
connectivity
issue or you might focus on data
processing or user interface
so there are multiple components in
every iot system keycon sensors are
key components that collect live data
from the surrounding
environment so you will work with
sensors then this subject later
and connectivity all collected data is
sent to a
cloud infrastructure via various
connectivity options for example it can
be bluetooth wi-fi
lorawan and data processing is also
another component of
iot system once data is collected in the
cloud this is process
to gain some insight you can you have
also some
pre-processing at the sensor level
depends depends on the complexity of the
sensors you would like to use but some
some sensors
uh provide this capability to do some
pre-processing pre-data processing you
can
for example you can do data aggregation
at the
physical layer and
yes i have
sorry for interruption because at the
same time i'm checking chatbots and also
on presenting my slice yes i will upload
all the slides on canvas
yes why not yes i will i can upload them
before
uh weekly sessions from next week
but uh i would like to see um uh
most of you in the class so if you get
the slides before the class uh
please attend the class as well because
we will have more discussions in the
class this slide is just uh
one thing and it's good to have
discussions more interaction in the
class
and also user interface is another
component of yg system
so the information should be available
to end user for example you have an app
on your mobile or
a laptop and sensor sends something you
get an alarm
on your device so this is the whole high
level
presentation of the iot system
a little about iot history the actual
idea
of connected devices was proposed in
1917 and then uh
here in 1991 the term internet of
things were used by kevin ashton upon
another slide about this
during his work and in
2008 uh the internet of things was born
the actual
hardware and sulfur so this is just a
little history so you know where we came
from and
where we are now uh kevin nation coined
the interest of things
in one of his presentation and he
mentioned if you had computers that knew
everything there was to know
about things using data they gathered
without any help from us we could
we would be able to track and count
everything and greatly reduce
waste loss and cost we would know when
things needed replacing repairing or
recalling and whether they were fresh
or past their best this was
this was when uh this intent of things
that terminology was coined
so it is just just a little history for
your information
[Music]
from next week we're going to focus more
on technical aspects of voice
wireless sensor network and noisy it's
good to have a little knowledge about
this uh
background and history so in 1917
uh remote monitoring while telephone
line
created here is that a very simple
diagram of
iot in past present and future in 19th
wireless technology invented like
machine to machine communications
mainly for industrial monitoring and
operations
in 2000 wireless sensor networks for
environmental monitoring
invented and then 2010 we had oig
development from ipv4 we turned to ipv6
to create more uh space for
uh addressing and then in 2025 this
is expected to have 100 billion or
probably more connected iot devices
so this would also create lots of
opportunities for engineers and
researchers
all these devices they need security
needs
power and there are they
need to be connected so we need to
develop new routing and protocols
so there are many opportunities uh
to explore okay let me check your
questions here
yes
[Music]
i have a short video here and then after
this we can
probably wrap up our session and
let me see if i can play it from here
[Music]
it's mainly about iot but auto probably
easier to uh
first internet of things
could you see my screen and hear
everything this is a presentation from
ted that will
probably be interesting
it's only nine minutes and let's watch
it together
who loves the internet if you didn't put
your hand up get out
if you don't use google at work to do
your job better then you're wrong
um and who loves things the chairs
you're sitting in the glasses you're
wearing the phones you hold
pretty much everyone some weird people
down here um
well the internet of things there's a
lot to it and i'm gonna try and breeze
through this in uh
seven minutes but let's jump into it
let's jump into what the internet
did something happen with the sound
you can't hear the sound
i can't hear anything i think it's
because she's muted herself
the internet of things who loves the
internet
if you didn't put your hand up get out
um
if you haven't used google at work to do
your job better then you're wrong
um and who loves things the chairs
you're sitting in the glasses you're
wearing the phones you hold
pretty much everyone some weird people
down here um
well the internet of things there's a
lot to it and i'm going to try and
breeze through this
in uh seven minutes but let's jump into
it let's jump into what the internet of
things iot
really is now in a digital world we can
make everything talk to each other
right we can make our phones talk to
each other we can make facebook talk to
each other
and in a physical world not so much this
is where our lives and
technological development has kind of
stopped but now
we are able to build a network so
multiple
of physical objects your chair your
table your lounge those tim tams in the
fridge
that are connected to the internet if
you don't know what the internet is and
you're saying weird people that said no
get out
um and you it allows you to send so you
can create and transmit
receive so that you can receive and
interpret
and exchange data exchange data you can
have conversations with things around
you
so iot will allow multiple physical
objects
like your tim tams to be connected to
the internet they can send
just how good tim tams are to other tim
tams and to you
and they can receive just how many
people want those damn tim temps
and they can have a conversation with
the other items in your fridge
so we're entering a very exciting time
where we will have
chairs couches pretty much everything
that's in your home
connected to the internet or at least to
have conversations
with things around you now still very
ominous right even we have a definition
that i may or may not have gotten
off urban dictionary but let's break it
into four sections
hardware little bits and pieces like
this
the hardware is what actually allows us
to connect digital items
to physical objects so i can put this on
a door and it will tell me when that
door opens
this is a dollar by the way a dollar
so we have hardware that senses things
we have data
data actually starts to make sense of
what all this is and it's the thing we
push around
all the time every day that we don't
really think about but for example this
piece of hardware here
creates ecg data it tells me how fast my
uh
my heart is beating let's actually check
that out right now
yeah okay 110 greats and
essentially this has also changed over
the last 10 years we used to push data
around in heavy
kind of standardized formats we're
seeing a lot of different ways of doing
this now
we see json strings let's see you
interpret that marquee
json yeah um and now
data is getting leaner we can say more
with less
okay and data is becoming the universal
language
not english not chinese not auslan
but the universal language of things and
software what do we do once we have that
communication once we have that piece of
information the software is what
interprets it it's what controls it
it's what analyzes it and allows it to
do stuff it's facebook
it's your instagram it's the things that
actually take
pieces of data from these pieces of
hardware and makes it do stuff that is
valuable to you
and the last step without all of this
you know stuff
is if it wasn't connected it wouldn't
mean anything and connectivity over the
last 10 years we've seen go from
cellular phones that were the size of
bricks through
to wi-fi to ethernet
to 2g gsm 4g all these different
acronyms that are awesome
but essentially it's gotten cheaper and
it's gotten faster
this is an rf transmitter this is a
dollar fifty
i can attach this to one of these
sensors with this little bit in the
middle
and i can start beaming information to
other things around me
with no ongoing cost with electricity
cost as much as one cent a month for one
of these
and i can start to have a conversation
in a language that is not english or
auslan
but in data and once we have all of
these things connected and get it up to
the cloud
like these things here we can actually
start to use them the thing on the top
left
i call them things because they're on
the internet the thing on the top left
is a bluetooth beacon
it's used for marking things these are
four dollars
i can place this on any object and use
this as a proximity marker
as well as an identifier i can put this
in my fridge so that i know when
mum went inside and ate 16 of those tim
tams
and for four dollars i can also put it
outside and know when my girlfriend gets
home that she got safely through the
valley and into my apartment
on the bottom left is an air quality
sensor this is on the top end of the
costly electronics but that's a six
dollar sensor that allows me to tell
is there ammonia is there carbon dioxide
or harmful gases in the environment
around me
and in the middle a galvanic skin
response system
this allows me to measure the
conductivity in my skin
down to the micro level where i can know
before my brain does that i'm stressed
that i've got adrenaline pumping or that
i'm on stage
and on the right we have consumerized
versions of these up to the 10
mark that allow anyone in their home to
start building the systems i'm talking
about
out of the box using software that's
readily available
and it's all in the wonderful cloud we
can do it anywhere
we can do it for ultra low cost we don't
have to worry about maintaining it
and you don't have to be an expert to
use it
now you may or may not know that this
already exists in your home
and if it doesn't you should already
have it there's systems that allow us to
walk up to our front door and not use a
key
but purely to actually measure is jordan
there
has he walked up in a particular way is
it him and unlock the door for me
i can turn my tv on to channel 7 in the
simpsons just as i get home and i like
to in the afternoon
i can actually measure how many people
are in my room what's the humidity
what's the temperature outside
and automatically set my air
conditioning i can talk to a unit
and turn my philips hue lights on at the
right time to the right color for my
mood
and if i leave them on when i leave
it'll take care of it for me
so what does this all mean why does big
a big problem right why why does it
present so many different opportunities
the thing is that now we have gotten to
a point where this is such an available
and realistic opportunity that it's
going to explode
and it's only going to happen in 10
years who loves their job at the moment
half of you were like no who thinks that
they'll be in the same job for the next
five years
well you are all wrong who thinks i'm in
the same job for 10 years
even worse we're entering a stage where
everything will be connected and the
impact of iot will be 11 trillion
a year by 2025 across factories
cities human identification and
interaction
healthcare work sites and general safety
offices and vehicles and why now because
of the ultra low cost of this hardware
the high availability of resources the
low level of difficulty to compile them
and put them together
and a highly digital and connected
universe
that is driving us towards not just
connecting our digital space in our
digital lives
but our physical space and the things we
actually deal with every day
this is a vertical farm the only human
interaction needed is placing the seeds
into the soil watering trimming
harvesting is all taken care of by iot
systems
and barcelona smart city over the last
10 years
has made one of the most iot integrated
smart cities in the world
by placing sensors that tell people
where parking spots are
they have increased revenue for parking
to 50 over 50 million dollars per year
they've decreased their energy costs by
37 million a year
purely by having iot and lights to tell
them when
they actually need to turn on and when
people are there to use them their smart
gardens save them 58 million dollars a
year
in water usage just by watering in the
right places at the right time
and now think about your home all those
things i mentioned in your house
i already do in mine it's here it's not
a futuristic
object or an idea it's a reality
so as we welcome the whole universe to
the next era
of connectivity i ask once all of our
tasks are automated
when the things that we currently do
every day and the jobs that half of you
love and half of you ain't
are actually replaced by iot devices
artificial intelligence and
interconnected systems
what do we do we come back to creativity
innovation and humanity we cannot
replace our need to create new things
to improve them and to build
interpersonal relationships
we invent we build we optimize
we operate we innovate and we remember
to enjoy sometimes
before we invent again iot is the
beginning
of a new era thank you
okay so what did you mainly learn from
this story
he like tintan but you noticed probably
i think the major thing he mentioned is
at a very low cost you can make your
home your office your environment
smarter
but think about it from other languages
but it's not necessarily having more ic
devices
better because these devices would also
create environmental pollution there
will be some security
problems and many other challenges as
well
so we need to think about how we can do
it smarter for example those uh topics
which i'm going to discuss about energy
efficiency
and sustainable loyalty is about to
address environmental pollution
because each these devices that they
have
batteries or supercars and this would
create environmental pollution
so it's better to extend the lifetime of
existing devices
rather than employing more and more
devices
also there are many challenges we
discussed in security sessions
when we have all these devices connected
to internet then we should address
security problems but i think
historically it was very
interesting and attractive
or newer students to
delve deep into this topic okay i only
have one slide here
and
we mainly discuss about oil tea but
there are also other terminologies i
just wanted to briefly mention to you we
have industrial iot
we have industry 4.0 we have cyber
physical system we call it cps
we have m2m ioe as i mentioned this is
basically
cisco's favorite term in terms of
everything
we have cloud of things we have level of
things
these are other terminologies there are
lots of over overlaps we can say for
example these are totally different
things compared to iot
uh we're not going to cover everything
in these subjects but it's good to
uh understand different terms as well so
if you see or
hear this sense you know what are the
differences for example cyber physical
system is mainly on
a physical layer or industry 4.0 is for
industrial application of iot and we
have some projects on
industry funded projects focusing on
these domains so
any questions
nope no probably not
great that was just an introduction and
i believe
all of you are familiar with iot and
sensors
uh today i really didn't want to go
through uh heavy teaching materials
from next week we will have teachings
and
lectures and labs today was just mainly
an introduction to the subjects and what
you're going to
see in the next couple of months
yep you can use this one but wait for
next week we will explain the lab
many students use python and java but
depends on what you're going to do are
you going to use raspberry pi
or other type of
hardware
think about how you're gonna form your
team do you know anyone in this class
or you can wait until i uh create that
microsoft teams
probably that would help you to find
your team members
but no rush you have another two weeks
at least to
create your team and the uh project
the submission report submissions is in
23rd of april you have plenty of time
the reason i mentioned today for your
team creation because
uh the sooner you know each other the
better you can work with each other and
uh i think this is uh
uh basic things for your team teamwork
you need to
know each other you need to know your
capabilities your
team members capabilities then you can
plan ahead
yes of course yeah of course highly
depends on your hardware
i'm gonna uh as uh some of you
suggested i mentioned i would like to
see your creativity in this subject
uh we will so i will publish a project
description in couple of weeks
but think about if you like to do
something else that that would be very
interesting and especially if you have
some background or some ideas you would
like to bring it to this project that
would be great
but just to give you more options i will
also introduce
other topics related to smart
agriculture
and then you can select
one of these topics but the core is
we have a core hardware and hardware
materials
to go through this project you can have
the select different applications
any questions
oh no great how was it how was the first
session
this is good it was really nice it was
good
thanks thanks
uh we this subject as i mentioned i've
been running this from 2017 and every
year we had great
feedback from students and great
comments and i
every year i reworked public material to
address students comments and
it's been improving but it's been
successful uh
since 2017. and i'm glad we have
interested the students
your question uh uh showed that you are
interested you want to do
something uh very practical and that's
really good don't think about
the so don't think about only to pass
the subjects or get good more
think about how you can use these
subjects to improve your hands-on
skills and there will be other other
opportunities down the line
i know your future career is really
important for you this is one
i invited the inviting industry
lecturers who are there last year i
invited the ceos who are confined
to our lectures i'm going to do the same
thing this year
or senior engineers from my industry
partners i will create this environment
for you so you have more interactions
with people outside university as well
okay if you have any questions feel free
to drop me an email
and if you like to catch up with me on
campus or on zoom let me know i will
arrange a
meeting but we will have our general
consultations as well every week
so if there is no other questions uh
enjoy your evening
and i'll see you next week
thank you thank you so much thank you
bye thank you you have a good day
thank you thank you